

Allergy Center helps manage allergies of an individual. Users can provide the allergies in their profile and the app can provide food alternative/recipes.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), around 8%, or 1 in every 13 children suffer from food allergies in the US. In fact the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) states that 90% of all food allergies are caused by the eight main allergens: milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans. It is a well known fact that those who suffer from food allergies have immense food restrictions depending on the severity of their particular allergies. As such, people suffering from food allergies are unable to eat certain food items that they cannot eat, rather they must seek out alternatives to eat. People with allergies often live a life with restrictions placed on them, and thus live in fear of the potential allergic reaction. Part of the reason for this is people are unaware of several key facts pertaining to their allergies. Allergy Center allows those who suffer from allergies to gain the information they need to make informed decisions regarding their allergies. Allergy Center allows for people to create an account and to save their allergies. They can then access many of the features in Allergy Center. The food bar scanner will scan a food label and based on the allergies indicated in the user’s profile, will sense whether the food is safe to consume. The food alternatives tab will allow for users to search for certain dishes they wish to eat, based on their indicated allergies, they will be provided with recipes to such dishes that do not contain any potential allergens. Users will also be able to search for any clinical trials concerning their allergies and also hopefully participate in the trials and hopefully one day together we will reduce the above stats.

